---
title: Theming
---

# Theming

## Applying a theme to the whole app

To support custom themes, paper exports a `Provider` component. You need to wrap your root component with the provider to be able to support themes:

```js
import * as React from 'react';
import { Provider as PaperProvider } from 'react-native-paper';
import App from './src/App';

export default function Main() {
  return (
    <PaperProvider>
      <App />
    </PaperProvider>
  );
}
```

If no prop is specified, this will apply the [default theme](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-paper/blob/main/src/styles/DefaultTheme.tsx) to the components. You can also provide a `theme` prop with a theme object with same properties as the default theme:

```js
import * as React from 'react';
import { DefaultTheme, Provider as PaperProvider } from 'react-native-paper';
import App from './src/App';

const theme = {
  ...DefaultTheme,
  roundness: 2,
  colors: {
    ...DefaultTheme.colors,
    primary: '#3498db',
    accent: '#f1c40f',
  },
};

export default function Main() {
  return (
    <PaperProvider theme={theme}>
      <App />
    </PaperProvider>
  );
}
```

You can change the theme prop dynamically and all the components will automatically update to reflect the new theme.

A theme usually contains the following properties:

- `dark` (`boolean`): whether this is a dark theme or light theme.
- `mode` (`'adaptive' | 'exact'`): color mode for dark theme (See [Dark Theme](#dark-theme)).
- `roundness` (`number`): roundness of common elements, such as buttons.
- `colors` (`object`): various colors used throughout different elements.
  - `primary` - primary color for your app, usually your brand color.
  - `accent` - secondary color for your app which complements the primary color.
  - `background` - background color for pages, such as lists.
  - `surface` - background color for elements containing content, such as cards.
  - `text` - text color for content.
  - `disabled` - color for disabled elements.
  - `placeholder` - color for placeholder text, such as input placeholder.
  - `backdrop` - color for backdrops of various components such as modals.
  - `onSurface` - background color for snackbars
  - `notification` - background color for badges
- `fonts` (`object`): various fonts used throughout different elements.
  - `regular`
  - `medium`
  - `light`
  - `thin`
- `animation` (`object`)
  - `scale` - scale for all animations

When creating a custom theme, you will need to provide all of these properties.

If you don't use a custom theme, Paper will automatically turn animations on/off, depending on device settings.

Otherwise, your custom theme will need to handle it manually, using React Native's [AccessibilityInfo API](https://reactnative.dev/docs/accessibilityinfo).

## Extending the theme

Keeping your own properties in the theme is fully supported by our library:

```js
import * as React from 'react';
import { DefaultTheme, Provider as PaperProvider } from 'react-native-paper';
import App from './src/App';

const theme = {
  ...DefaultTheme,
  // Specify custom property
  myOwnProperty: true,
  // Specify custom property in nested object
  colors: {
    myOwnColor: '#BADA55',
  }
};

export default function Main() {
  return (
    <PaperProvider theme={theme}>
      <App />
    </PaperProvider>
  );
}
```

### TypeScript

By default it won't work well with TypeScript, but we can take advantage of `global augmentations` and specify the new properties that we added to the theme:

```ts
import * as React from 'react';
import { DefaultTheme, Provider as PaperProvider } from 'react-native-paper';
import App from './src/App';

declare global {
  namespace ReactNativePaper {
    interface ThemeColors {
      myOwnColor: string;
    }

    interface Theme {
      myOwnProperty: boolean;
    }
  }
}

const theme = {
  ...DefaultTheme,
  // Specify custom property
  myOwnProperty: true,
    // Specify custom property in nested object
  colors: {
    myOwnColor: '#BADA55',
  }
};

export default function Main() {
  return (
    <PaperProvider theme={theme}>
      <App />
    </PaperProvider>
  );
}
```

As you can see, custom properties e.g. `myOwnColor` defined in nested object e.g. `colors` needs to be declared in its own interface. You'll find more information in our [example app](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-paper/blob/main/example/src/index.tsx) where we have it implemented.

## Applying a theme to a paper component

If you want to change the theme for a certain component from the library, you can directly pass the `theme` prop to the component. The theme passed as the prop is merged with the theme from the `Provider`:

```js
import * as React from 'react';
import { Button } from 'react-native-paper';

export default function ButtonExample() {
  return (
    <Button raised theme={{ roundness: 3 }}>
      Press me
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Using the theme in your own components

To access the theme in your own components, you can use the `withTheme` HOC exported from the library. If you wrap your component with the HOC, you'll receive the theme as a prop:

```js
import * as React from 'react';
import { withTheme } from 'react-native-paper';

function MyComponent(props) {
  const { colors } = props.theme;
  return <Text style={{ color: colors.primary }}>Yo!</Text>;
}

export default withTheme(MyComponent);
```

Components wrapped with `withTheme` support the theme from the `Provider` as well as from the `theme` prop.

You can also use the `useTheme` hook:

```js
import * as React from 'react';
import { useTheme } from 'react-native-paper';

function MyComponent(props) {
  const { colors } = useTheme();
  return <Text style={{ color: colors.primary }}>Yo!</Text>;
}
```

## Customizing all instances of a component

Sometimes you want to style a component in a different way everywhere but don't want to change the properties in the theme so that other components are not affected. For example, say you want to change the font for all your buttons, but don't want to change `theme.fonts.medium` because it affects other components.

We don't have an API to do this, because you can already do it with components:

```js
import * as React from 'react';
import { Button } from 'react-native-paper';

export default function FancyButton(props) {
  return <Button theme={{ fonts: { medium: 'Open Sans' } }} {...props} />;
}
```

Now you can use your `FancyButton` component everywhere instead of using `Button` from Paper.

## Dark Theme

Since 3.0 we adapt dark theme to follow [Material design guidelines](https://material.io/design/color/dark-theme.html). </br>
In contrast to light theme, dark theme by default uses `surface` colour instead of `primary` on large components like `AppBar` or `BottomNavigation`.</br>
The dark theme adds a white overlay with opacity depending on elevation of surfaces. It uses it for the better accentuation of surface elevation. Using only shadow is highly imperceptible on dark surfaces.

We are aware that users often use dark theme in their own ways and may not want to use the default dark theme features from the guidelines.</br>
That's why if you are using dark theme you can switch between two dark theme `mode`s:

- `exact` where everything is like it was before. `Appbar` and `BottomNavigation` will still use primary colour by default.</br>
- `adaptive` where we follow [Material design guidelines](https://material.io/design/color/dark-theme.html), the surface will use white overlay with opacity to show elevation, `Appbar` and `BottomNavigation` will use surface colour as a background.

If you don't use a custom theme, Paper will automatically change between the default theme and the default dark theme, depending on device settings.

Otherwise, your custom theme will need to handle it manually, using React Native's [Appearance API](https://reactnative.dev/docs/appearance).

## Gotchas

The `Provider` exposes the theme to the components via [React's context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html), which means that the component must be in the same tree as the `Provider`. Some React Native components will render a different tree such as a `Modal`, in which case the components inside the `Modal` won't be able to access the theme. The work around is to get the theme using the `withTheme` HOC and pass it down to the components as props, or expose it again with the exported `ThemeProvider` component.

The `Modal` component from the library already handles this edge case, so you won't need to do anything.
