Theming
=======

## Applying a theme to the whole app

To support custom themes, paper exports a `Provider` component. You need to wrap your root component with the provider to be able to support themes.

```js
export default function Main() {
  return (
    <Provider>
      <App />
    </Provider>
  );
}
```

If no prop is specified, this will apply the [default theme](src/styles/DefaultTheme.js) to the components. You can also provide a `theme` prop with a theme object with same properties as the default theme. The theme will be merged into the default theme.

```js
const theme = {
  roundness: 2,
  colors: {
    primary: '#3498db',
    accent: '#f1c40f',
  }
};

export default function Main() {
  return (
    <Provider theme={theme}>
      <App />
    </Provider>
  );
}
```

You can change the theme prop dynamically and all the components will automatically update to reflect the new theme.

## Applying a theme to a paper component

If you want to change the theme for a certain component from the library, you can directly pass the `theme` prop to the component. The theme passed as the prop is merged with the theme from the `Provider`.

```js
export default function ButtonExample() {
  return (
    <Button raised theme={{ roundness: 3 }}>
      Press me
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Using the theme in your own components

To access the theme in your own components, you can use the `withTheme` HOC exported from the library. If you wrap your component with the HOC, you'll receive the theme as a prop.

```js
function MyComponent(props) {
  const { colors } = props.theme;
  return <Text style={{ color: colors.primary }}>Yo!</Text>;
}

export default withTheme(MyComponent);
```

Components wrapped with `withTheme` support the theme from the `Provider` as well as from the `theme` prop.

## Gotchas

The `Provider` exposes the theme to the components via [React's context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html), which means that the component must be in the same tree as the `Provider`. Some React Native components will render a different tree such as a `Modal`, in which case the components inside the `Modal` won't be able to access the theme. The work around is to get the theme using the `withTheme` HOC and pass it down to the components as props, or expose it again with the exported `ThemeProvider` component.

The `Modal` component from the library already handles this edge case, so you won't need to do anything.
